<DOC>
<DOCNO>FT921-182</DOCNO>
<PROFILE>_AN-CC4BOABHFT</PROFILE>
<DATE>920331
</DATE>
<HEADLINE>
FT  31 MAR 92 / Technology: Wasting time over recycling - Technically
Speaking
</HEADLINE>
<BYLINE>
   By JOHN THORNHILL
</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
The packaging industry believes it is grievously misunderstood. At a
Financial Times conference on the subject last week several speakers claimed
that many desirable facets of packaging are frequently overlooked amid the
debate about its impact on the environment.
Packaging acts as an efficient means of transporting and preserving goods,
as a way of ensuring food safety and hygiene and as a method of advertising
a product, they say.
Good packaging saves more than it wastes. The squandering of resources in
many third world countries and the former Soviet Union suggests there should
be more packaging in the world, not less.
'Waste is much more than just a landfill, or a bin in a household,' argues
Hans Rausing, chairman and chief executive of Tetra Pak Alfa-Laval Group. If
a child's brain is wasted through lack of milk, is this not also waste, he
asks.
The industry has a point.
In the grand scheme of things, packaging waste represents only a small
environmental problem but assumes a disproportionate amount of attention
because of its connotations with a throw-away society.
And in framing European legislation on packaging waste, national legislators
have adopted narrow definitions of waste which concentrate on recyclability
to the exclusion of other environmental factors such as the energy used to
recycle them.
But complaining about all this is rather like a football team moaning about
losing one-nil after extra time while worse teams have escaped with draws.
It is the result that counts. If consumers and politicians believe that
packaging represents a big problem then it does. 'Perception is reality,' as
one speaker noted.
With some commendable exceptions, packaging companies have generally reacted
to the environmental challenge with the vision of proverbial ostriches
burying their heads in the sand.
Those companies which have responded tend to view the process as a marketing
exercise rather than as a means of changing the way they operate. Sweeping
environmental claims have been made and subsequently regretted.
Different factions of the packaging industry have also indulged in an
unhealthy internal debate pitting one sector against another. Plastics,
glass, metals and paper packaging associations have all extolled the virtues
of their own products while rubbishing those of others. There has been
little attempt to co-ordinate an industry-wide approach.
Equally, environmental pressure groups are in danger of losing faith with
consumers by pressing governments to adopt policies that are of obvious
political appeal but of dubious environmental benefit.
In particular, the German recycling scheme, the Duales System Deutschland,
which encourages industry to recover and recycle its packages, has aroused
the ire of many in the European packaging industry. One speaker condemned it
as 'absolute lunacy'. Another criticised it as a 'pilot scheme involving 79m
people'.
There is justification in many of their criticisms. Although the DSD may
help solve the landfill problem there are grave concerns about its total
environmental effect.
As Jonathan Sims of packaging consultants RMA said: 'More resources are
being spent transporting waste packaging around Germany, sorting it,
recycling it, warehousing it and dumping it on other markets, than are being
saved. Repeat this on a European scale and in the name of environmental
benefit we will be committing environmental vandalism.'
It is perhaps now time for both the packaging industry and the environmental
campaigners to drop their antagonisms and work closely together to create
more sensible technical solutions to the problems.
At present, both sides are in danger of losing their credibility. And in the
environmental debate credibility is all.
</TEXT>
<PUB>The Financial Times
</PUB>
<PAGE>
London Page 14
</PAGE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>FT921-184</DOCNO>
<PROFILE>_AN-CC4BOABFFT</PROFILE>
<DATE>920331
</DATE>
<HEADLINE>
FT  31 MAR 92 / Technology: BT ups the ante - Nuala Moran explains how to
fight bugs with bugs
</HEADLINE>
<TEXT>
BT is turning entomologist as it searches for a new software strategy to
manage its network.
Scientists in the advanced systems group at the company's Martlesham
Research Laboratories near Ipswich are using ant colonies as a bizarre model
of how to keep its network up and running at all times, cutting out the
costly equipment duplication which is currently needed to prevent loss of
service in the event of failure.
Peter Cochrane, who is heading the software project, first had the idea as
he observed the teeming life of an ant hill while on holiday in Spain. 'When
you look at an ant colony it is remarkable that it can do so many different
things and control so many different functions; yet it takes the equivalent
of only five lines of code to control all the behavioural characteristics
that keep the colony operating smoothly,' he says. If an ant colony is
disrupted it has an amazing capacity for reorganising itself and carrying on
as normal.
A problem with BT's current network is that none of its equipment functions
without software instructions. And because the elements of the network are
so inter-related, one small software fault can lead to big disruptions.
BT's engineers are casting a wary eye at a series of catastrophic network
failures experienced by AT&amp;T and the regional telephone companies in the US
over the past two years.
Between January and November 1991 eight major network failures were reported
in six states, affecting more than 27m customers.
Many of the breakdowns have been attributed to faulty software in the
networks, leading to 'brown outs'. These occur when the software fault leads
a telephone exchange, or switch, to think it is overloaded and to pass a
call on to the next exchange which also thinks it is overloaded. As the call
is passed from switch to switch the network seizes up.
Such a failure meant that 10m users lost service in Maryland and Washington
DC on June 26 last year. On October 22 a similar fault interrupted service
to 80,000 people in Florida - including the 911 emergency service - for
three hours.
AT&amp;T's exchanges not only handle the traffic flowing through the network but
also have integrated customer services such as billing and caller
identification. Such huge amounts of software are inevitably subject to
bugs.
'Put a full stop in the wrong place and it all goes wrong - the probe misses
Jupiter by thousands of miles or the aeroplane crashes,' says Cochrane.
Some breakdowns in the US have been blamed on a minor software upgrade that
was not tested before it was installed in network switching equipment.
Even with the most exhaustive testing, however, software bugs may only come
to light when a network is up and running.
Cochrane believes it is partly a matter of luck that such breakdowns have
not happened in the UK.
From his observations of ant colonies Cochrane has devised a principle of
self-organisation whereby different elements of a network are managed by a
small quantity of self-contained software. Each of these units is then
immune from faults occurring in other units.
When ants are sent off to collect food they may use different routes to and
from the nest, but the result is the same. In Cochrane's analogy the ant is
equivalent to a physical connection in the network and the food is
equivalent to the information that is being passed down it. BT has now built
the first stage of such a self-organising network on a personal computer.
Cochrane stresses that self-organisation of networks is just one line of
investigation that BT is following to get to grips with the problems of
managing its network.
The company is facing a seven-fold expansion in the volume of its network
management software as it moves to create the kind of network which UK
businesses will be demanding by the end of the decade, providing, for
example, visual services.
Its Martlesham project will devise ways of simplifying the software
controlling the company's next generation of exchanges, which are due to
start replacing the existing System X ones early in the next century.
The company is 'tearing its existing software to pieces' and thoroughly
testing any new software before it is installed.
At the same time more reliable hardware is coming to the rescue. 'At the
moment if we do have failures there is standby equipment, but obviously such
redundancy increases costs,' says Cochrane. 'More reliable hardware has
allowed BT to reduce duplication in the past 20 years. The amount of
hardware has been cut 100 times while the network capacity has increased 100
times.'
BT is also studying the network failures in the US to pre-empt such
breakdowns in the UK.
Some of the US failures indicate that network back-up is a chimera. Not only
does it make network management more complex, but if the back-up consists of
the same equipment it can also be hit by the same software bug.
In a sense, adopting the philosophy of self organisation will take BT back
to the era of the Strowger electromechanical switches where every switch on
the network was autonomous.
The US failures have demonstrated, however, that the high capacity of a
single piece of network equipment makes even a low probability of failure
unacceptable.
Customers want fewer small-scale failures but not at the expense of the
occasional large breakdown which brings a whole city to a standstill.
</TEXT>
<PUB>The Financial Times
</PUB>
<PAGE>
London Page 14
</PAGE>
</DOC>